docs(changelog) update KE 2.3.x changelog (#2578)
Kong/docs.konghq.com: app/enterprise/changelog.md

no_version: true
skip_read_time: true
---
## 2.3.0.0
**Release Date** 2020/02/10

### **Kong Enterprise**
The following sections list {{site.ee_product_name}}-exclusive updates,
features, and fixes for the **2.3.0.0** version.

### Features

> #### Enterprise

Author: Done. Added to Enterprise section.

A (non-OSS) Kong Gateway running in its default Free Mode can be upgraded to add
Enterprise functionality modules and features including **Kong Vitals**, **RBAC**,
**Workspaces**, and **Kong Enterprise Plugins** simply by applying a new Kong license.
Contact your Kong sales representative for more information.

#### Core
- Kong checks version compatibility between the control plane and any data planes to ensure
the data planes and any plugins have compatibility with the control plane in hybrid mode.
The sync is stopped if the major/minor version differ or if the installed plugin versions
differ between control plane and data plane nodes. For more information, see
[Version and Compatibility Checks](/2.3.x/hybrid-mode/#version-and-compatibility-checks).
- Kong now accepts UTF-8 characters in route and service names. Entities with a `name` field
now support UTF-8 characters.
- Certificates now have `cert_alt` and `key_alt` fields to specify an alternative certificate
and key pair.

> - The Go pluginserver `stderr` and `stdout` are now written into Kong’s logs, allowing Golang’s

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The Go pluginserver `stderr` and `stdout` are now written into {{site.base_gateway}}’s logs, allowing Golang’s
```

native `log.Printf()`.
  - Introduced support for multiple pluginservers. This feature is backward-compatible with
  the existing single Go pluginserver.

#### Plugin Development Kit (PDK)
- Introduced a `kong.node.get_hostname` method that returns current node's host name.
- Introduced a `kong.cluster.get_id` method that returns a unique ID

>   for the current Kong cluster. If Kong is running in DB-less mode

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  for the current {{site.base_gateway}} cluster. If the gateway is running in DB-less mode
```

  without a cluster ID explicitly defined, this method returns nil.
  For Hybrid mode, all Control Planes and Data Planes belonging to the
  same cluster returns the same cluster ID. For traditional database

>   type deployments, all Kong nodes pointing to the same database will

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  type deployments, all {{site.base_gateway}} nodes pointing to the same database will
```

  also return the same cluster ID.
- Introduced a `kong.log.set_serialize_value`, which allows customizing
  the output of `kong.log.serialize`.

#### Plugins
- The [HTTP Log](https://docs.konghq.com/hub/kong-inc/http-log/) (`http-log`) plugin

> has been improved to allow you to add a table of headers to the HTTP request using the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
now lets you add a table of headers to the HTTP request using the
```

`headers` configuration parameter, which will help you integrate with many observability systems.
- The [Key Authentication](https://docs.konghq.com/hub/kong-inc/key-auth/) (`key-auth`)
plugin has two new configuration parameters: `key_in_header` and `key_in_query`. Both

> are booleans and tell Kong whether to accept (true) or reject (false) passed in either

Reviewer: ```suggestion
are booleans and tell {{site.base_gateway}} whether to accept (true) or reject (false) passed in either
```

the header or the query string. Both default to “true.”
- The [Request Size Limiting](https://docs.konghq.com/hub/kong-inc/request-size-limiting/)
(`request-size-limiting`) plugin has a new configuration `require_content_length` that
causes the plugin to ensure a valid Content-Length header exists before reading the request body.
- The [Serverless Functions](https://docs.konghq.com/hub/kong-inc/serverless-functions/)
(`serverless-functions`) plugin introduces a sandboxing capability, is *enabled* by default,
and where only Kong PDK, OpenResty `ngx` APIs, and Lua standard libraries are allowed.

#### Configuration
- `client_max_body_size` and `client_body_buffer_size`, that previously
  hardcoded to 10m, are now configurable through

>   [nginx_admin_client_max_body_size](/2.3.x/configuration/#nginx_http_client_max_body_size)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  [nginx_admin_client_max_body_size](/gateway-oss/2.3.x/configuration/#nginx_http_client_max_body_size)
```

>   and [nginx_admin_client_body_buffer_size](/2.3.x/configuration/#nginx_admin_client_body_buffer_size).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  and [nginx_admin_client_body_buffer_size](gateway-oss/2.3.x/configuration/#nginx_admin_client_body_buffer_size).
```

- Kong-generated SSL private keys now have `600` file system permission.
- Properties `ssl_cert`, `ssl_cert_key`, `admin_ssl_cert`,
  `admin_ssl_cert_key`, `status_ssl_cert`, and `status_ssl_cert_key`
  is now an array: previously, only an RSA certificate was generated
  by default; with this change, an ECDSA is also generated. On
  intermediate and modern cipher suites, the ECDSA certificate is set
  as the default fallback certificate; on old cipher suite, the RSA
  certificate remains as the default. On custom certificates, the first
  certificate specified in the array is used.

> - Kong now runs as a `kong` user if it exists; if user does not exist

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- {{site.base_gateway}} now runs as a `kong` user if it exists; if user does not exist
```

on Route objects. This fix make such attacks more difficult by always normalizing the incoming
request's URI before matching against the Router.
- Fixed issue where a Go plugin would fail to read `kong.ctx.shared` values set by Lua plugins.
- Properly trigger `dao:delete_by:post` hook.
- Fixed issue where a route that supports both http and https (and has a hosts and SNIs
match criteria) would fail to proxy http requests, as it does not contain an SNI.
- Fixed issue where a `nil` request context would lead to errors `attempt to index local 'ctx'`
being shown in the logs.
- Reduced the number of needed timers to active health check upstreams and to resolve hosts.
- Schemas for full-schema validations are correctly cached now, avoiding memory
  leaks when reloading declarative configurations.
- The schema for the upstream entities now limits the highest configurable
  number of successes and failures to 255, respecting the limits imposed by
  `lua-resty-healthcheck`.
- Certificates for database connections now are loaded in the right order
  avoiding failures to connect to Postgres databases.

> - Fixed Lua validate_function in sandbox module.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fixed Lua `validate_function` in sandbox module.
```

- Mark boolean fields with default values as required.

#### CLI
- Fixed issue where `kong reload -c <config>` would fail.

> - Fixed issue where the Kong configuration cache would get corrupted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fixed issue where the {{site.base_gateway}} configuration cache would get corrupted.
```

> - Kong migrations now accepts a `-p/--prefix` flag.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `kong migrations` now accepts a `-p/--prefix` flag.
```
Note: this is undocumented in the CLI ref.

#### Developer Portal
- Fixed issue when applying permissions to developers using the Application Registration feature.

#### Plugin Development Kit (PDK)
- Ensure the log serializer encodes the `tries` field as an array when
  empty, rather than an object.

#### Plugins

> - JWT disallow plugin on consumers. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [JWT](/hub/kong-inc/jwt) (`jwt`): disallow plugin on consumers. 
```

- The [Request Transformer](https://docs.konghq.com/hub/kong-inc/request-transformer/) (`request-transformer`)
plugin does not allow `null` in config anymore as they can lead to runtime errors.
- [OpenID Connect](https://docs.konghq.com/hub/kong-inc/openid-connect/) (`openid-connect`) issue
fixed causing a 500 auth error when falling back to an anonymous user.  

> - rate-limiting improved counter accuracy. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Rate Limiting](/hub/kong-inc/rate-limiting) (`rate-limiting`): improved counter accuracy. 
```

no_version: true
skip_read_time: true
---

> ## 2.3.0.0

Reviewer 2: It's  2.3.2.0, not 2.3.0.0

**Release Date** 2020/02/10

### **Kong Gateway (Enterprise)**

> The following sections list {{site.ee_product_name}}-exclusive updates,

Reviewer 2: I'm curious why we use template placeholders here vs a specific product name in the line above?  I'm also curious: will the changelog end up changing if the template placeholders change e.g. in 2.5.x or 3.0?

Reviewer: Good point - maybe we shouldn't use variables in the changelog at all, since it's supposed to be a snapshot in time.

We generally don't use them in headers or titles for linking purposes.

> features, and fixes for the **2.3.0.0** version.

Reviewer 2: 2.3.2.0 here as well

Author: Fixed.

> Kong Enterprise is renamed to Kong Gateway, or Kong Gateway (Enterprise) going forward.

Reviewer 2: I think a reader may read this and think that their "Kong Enterprise subscription is renamed to Kong Gateway subscription."  I think we need to be clear on what's changing (how we refer to the gateway name) and it makes sense to me to specifically call out the inverse (OSS) as well for completeness.  I've tried to identify some longer-form description in my blog which could be summarized here

Author: Add this to changelog "Kong Enterprise is renamed to Kong Gateway or Kong Gateway (Enterprise) going forward. For a more detailed explanation, including information about Kong Gateway (OSS), see [Kong Gateway (Enterprise) 2.3.x Release Notes](https://docs.konghq.com/enterprise/2.3.x/release-notes/). "

If we want a more detailed explanation in the changelog, we can expand.

### Features

#### Enterprise
- Kong Gateway can now run in free mode, without a license, which gives users access to Kong Manager and an easy upgrade path to Enterprise.

> - A (non-OSS) Kong Gateway running in its default Free Mode can be upgraded to add

Reviewer 2: Let's be consistent in capitalization of "free mode" (we use it as a proper name in this line but lower case on the line above).  I think it's fine to use proper naming capitalization (Free Mode) even though we don't really have anything internally that delineates it as such but I'd lean in the direction of not considering it a proper name and instead calling it out as "a free mode" (on the line above) and "default free mode" in this line as non-proper

Reviewer: I'd lean towards not having this capitalized, as excessive capitalization is already a problem in the docs and often leads to interrupted flow.

Author: fixed to be "free mode"

Enterprise functionality modules and features including **Kong Vitals**, **RBAC**,
**Workspaces**, and **Enterprise Plugins** simply by applying a new Kong license.

> Contact your Kong sales representative for more information.

Reviewer 2: A net new user that starts off in free mode is not going to have a sales rep that they know about or even know how to contact us.  Let's link them to https://konghq.com/get-started/ and instead of telling them to contact their sales rep, let's say "Reach out to us if you'd like to learn more" as the text of the link

> - A new Admin API endpoint allows application of a license to Kong Gateway.

Reviewer 2: Link to docs of license api

> - In hybrid mode, the control plane now propagates its license to the connected data planes in the cluster. Data planes do not require individual licenses.

Reviewer 2: Do we have any architectural docs that show this yet?

Author: No. Adding this to our JIRA board as needed in the docs.

> - The Kong Gateway installation packages now reside under https://bintray.com/kong/ and do not require a login. Search for “gateway” to list all available packages.

Reviewer 2: I think I know the answer to this, but search where?  On Bintray?  Shouldn't we link the users instead to https://konghq.com/install/?

- Added details to the error message of the entity type and number of entities that are preventing a Workspace from being deleted if the Workspace is not empty.

> - mTLS connections to Postres are now supported.

Reviewer 2: Links to docs: how do I set this up as a user?

> - Postgres connection using scram-sha256 authentication are now supported.

Reviewer 2: Links to docs: how do I set this up as a user?

#### Core
- Kong checks version compatibility between the control plane and any data planes to ensure
the data planes and any plugins have compatibility with the control plane in hybrid mode.
The sync is stopped if the major/minor version differ or if the installed plugin versions
differ between control plane and data plane nodes. For more information, see
[Version and Compatibility Checks](/2.3.x/hybrid-mode/#version-and-compatibility-checks).
- {{site.base_gateway}} now accepts UTF-8 characters in route and service names. Entities with a `name` field
now support UTF-8 characters.

> - Certificates now have `cert_alt` and `key_alt` fields to specify an alternative certificate

Reviewer 2: Links to docs: how do I set this up as a user?

and key pair.
- The Go pluginserver `stderr` and `stdout` are now written into {{site.base_gateway}}’s logs, allowing Golang’s
native `log.Printf()`.

>   - Introduced support for multiple pluginservers. This feature is backward-compatible with

Reviewer 2: Links to docs: how do I set this up as a user?

  the existing single Go pluginserver.

#### Plugin Development Kit (PDK)
- Introduced a `kong.node.get_hostname` method that returns current node's host name.
- Introduced a `kong.cluster.get_id` method that returns a unique ID
  for the current {{site.base_gateway}} cluster. If the gateway is running in DB-less mode
  without a cluster ID explicitly defined, this method returns nil.
  For Hybrid mode, all Control Planes and Data Planes belonging to the
  same cluster returns the same cluster ID. For traditional database
  type deployments, all {{site.base_gateway}} nodes pointing to the same database will
  also return the same cluster ID.

> - Introduced a `kong.log.set_serialize_value`, which allows customizing

Reviewer 2: Links to docs: how do I use this PDK function?

plugin has two new configuration parameters: `key_in_header` and `key_in_query`. Both
are booleans and tell {{site.base_gateway}} whether to accept (true) or reject (false) passed in either
the header or the query string. Both default to “true.”
- The [Request Size Limiting](https://docs.konghq.com/hub/kong-inc/request-size-limiting/)
(`request-size-limiting`) plugin has a new configuration `require_content_length` that
causes the plugin to ensure a valid Content-Length header exists before reading the request body.
- The [Serverless Functions](https://docs.konghq.com/hub/kong-inc/serverless-functions/)
(`serverless-functions`) plugin introduces a sandboxing capability, is *enabled* by default,
and where only Kong PDK, OpenResty `ngx` APIs, and Lua standard libraries are allowed.
- The [LDAP Authentication Advanced](https://docs.konghq.com/hub/kong-inc/ldap-auth-advanced/) (`ldap-auth-advanced`) plugin has two new features:
  - added config `log_search_results` that allows displaying all of the LDAP search results received from the LDAP server.
  - additional debug log statements added for authenticated groups.

> - jq plugin

Reviewer 2: jq plugin didn't make it

Author: removed

> - Rate Limiting Advanced:

Reviewer 2: Link to RLA plugin docs

  - add a jitter (random delay) for the Retry-After header

> - mtls-auth

Reviewer 2: Link to plugin docs

  - add support for tags in the DAO
  - plugin ensures the existence of any provided CAs when creating the plugin entry

> - Response transformer advanced:

Reviewer 2: Link to plugin docs

  - json paths for nested elements and arrays:
  - transform gzipped content:
- Collector
  - Support for hybrid mode

>   - remove log_bodies configuration option

Reviewer 2: This sounds like a breaking change in a minor?  Do we have the collector docs anywhere to reference?

- OpenID Connect Library

>   - Token introspection now checks the status code properly

Reviewer 2: What happened when it didn't check the status code properly?  How would a user know they were susceptible to this issue?

>   - More consistent response body checks on HTTP requests  

Reviewer 2: What happened when it didn't check the response body consistently? How would a user know they were susceptible to this issue?

#### Configuration
- `client_max_body_size` and `client_body_buffer_size`, that previously
  hardcoded to 10m, are now configurable through
  [nginx_admin_client_max_body_size](/gateway-oss/2.3.x/configuration/#nginx_http_client_max_body_size)
  and [nginx_admin_client_body_buffer_size](/gateway-oss/2.3.x/configuration/#nginx_admin_client_body_buffer_size).
- Kong-generated SSL private keys now have `600` file system permission.

> - Properties `ssl_cert`, `ssl_cert_key`, `admin_ssl_cert`,

Reviewer 2: Can we link to docs on this? (https://github.com/Kong/docs.konghq.com/pull/2542#discussion_r565478201)

  `admin_ssl_cert_key`, `status_ssl_cert`, and `status_ssl_cert_key`
  is now an array: previously, only an RSA certificate was generated
  by default; with this change, an ECDSA is also generated. On
  intermediate and modern cipher suites, the ECDSA certificate is set
  as the default fallback certificate; on old cipher suite, the RSA
  certificate remains as the default. On custom certificates, the first
  certificate specified in the array is used.
- {{site.base_gateway}} now runs as a `kong` user if it exists; if user does not exist
  in the system, the `nobody` user is used, as before.

### Dependencies
- Bumped `kong-plugin-serverless-functions` from 1.0 to 2.1.
- Bumped `lua-resty-dns-client` from 5.1.0 to 5.2.0.
- Bumped `lua-resty-healthcheck` from 1.3.0 to 1.4.0.
- Bumped `OpenSSL` from 1.1.1h to 1.1.1i.
- Bumped `kong-plugin-zipkin` from 1.1 to 1.2.
- Bumped `kong-plugin-request-transformer` from 1.2 to 1.3.

### Fixes

> #### Core

Reviewer 2: I had added a number of comments on these fixes in the last review and it looks like they still apply (e.g. https://github.com/Kong/docs.konghq.com/pull/2542#discussion_r565478826, https://github.com/Kong/docs.konghq.com/pull/2542#discussion_r565479499, https://github.com/Kong/docs.konghq.com/pull/2542#discussion_r565480083, https://github.com/Kong/docs.konghq.com/pull/2542#discussion_r565480408).

- Fixed an issue where certain incoming URI may make it possible to bypass security rules applied
on Route objects. This fix make such attacks more difficult by always normalizing the incoming
request's URI before matching against the Router.
- Fixed issue where a Go plugin would fail to read `kong.ctx.shared` values set by Lua plugins.
- Properly trigger `dao:delete_by:post` hook.
- Fixed issue where a route that supports both http and https (and has a hosts and SNIs
match criteria) would fail to proxy http requests, as it does not contain an SNI.
- Fixed issue where a `nil` request context would lead to errors `attempt to index local 'ctx'`
being shown in the logs.
- Reduced the number of needed timers to active health check upstreams and to resolve hosts.
- Schemas for full-schema validations are correctly cached now, avoiding memory
  leaks when reloading declarative configurations.
- The schema for the upstream entities now limits the highest configurable
  number of successes and failures to 255, respecting the limits imposed by
  `lua-resty-healthcheck`.

> - Certificates for database connections now are loaded in the right order

Reviewer 2: This was a massive issue for several customers.  We should call out a bit more on the background/problems users ran into.  This was a problem due to the OS certificate loading that was back in 2.2 and has prevented customers from upgrading to 2.2.x

  avoiding failures to connect to Postgres databases.

> - Fixed Lua `validate_function` in sandbox module.

Reviewer 2: Fixed in what way?  What kinds of problems would someone see without this fix?

- Mark boolean fields with default values as required.

#### CLI
- Fixed issue where `kong reload -c <config>` would fail.
- Fixed issue where the {{site.base_gateway}} configuration cache would get corrupted.
- Kong migrations now accepts a `-p/--prefix` flag.

#### Developer Portal

> - Fixed issue when applying permissions to developers using the Application Registration feature.

Reviewer 2: What issue?  How didn't it work/how would a user know this version fixes it for them?

#### Plugin Development Kit (PDK)
- Ensure the log serializer encodes the `tries` field as an array when
  empty, rather than an object.

#### Plugins

> - The [JWT](https://docs.konghq.com/hub/kong-inc/jwt/) (`jwt`) plugin disallows on consumers. 

Reviewer 2: This sentence is confusing.  Can we reword?

- The [Request Transformer](https://docs.konghq.com/hub/kong-inc/request-transformer/) (`request-transformer`)
plugin does not allow `null` in config anymore as they can lead to runtime errors.
- [OpenID Connect](https://docs.konghq.com/hub/kong-inc/openid-connect/) (`openid-connect`)
 - Fixed issue causing a 500 auth error when falling back to an anonymous user.  
 - Fixed consumer and discovery invalidation events that were returning when the operation was create. This could leave some cache entries in cache that need to be invalidated.
 - Fixed a circular dependency issue with redirect function
 - Fixed init worker on clients could take a long time

> - The [Rate Limiting](https://docs.konghq.com/hub/kong-inc/rate-limiting/) (`rate-limiting`) has improved counter accuracy.

Reviewer 2: Improved in what way / what would a user notice in a before-vs-after situation?
